Update documentation for redis.io (#967)
RedisGears/RedisGears: docs/docs/Development.md

---
title: "Development"
linkTitle: "Development"
weight: 3
description: >
  How to develop Triggers and Functions
---

> To aid in the development of new libraries of Triggers and Functions you can use the type declaration files for the Triggers and Functions API. This can be used by your preferred development environment to provide autocomplete and type check based on the type information. You can install it using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To aid in the development of new libraries of Triggers and Functions you can use the type declaration files for the Triggers and Functions API. This can be used by your preferred development environment to provide autocompletion and type checking based on the type information. You can install it using the following command:
```

```bash
npm install https://gitpkg.now.sh/RedisGears/RedisGears/redisgears_js_api
```

Or add it directly as a dependency to your `package.json`:

```json
"devDependencies": {
  "@redis/gears-api": "https://gitpkg.now.sh/RedisGears/RedisGears/js_api"
}
```

## Example project setup

> Create an empty directory for your new Triggers and Functions project, `my_first_project`. Navigate in the folder and run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an empty directory for your new Triggers and Functions project, `my_first_project`. Navigate to the folder and run the following command:
```

---
title: "Development"
linkTitle: "Development"
weight: 3
description: >
  How to develop Triggers and Functions
---

> When the project is small it is acceptable to have a single file that contains the entire code base. But as the project grows and become complex it is less comfortable to maintain it as a single file project. Lucky for us JS already face such problem and has the relevant tool to maintain a multi file project and compress it on build time to a single file that contains all the code. In this tutorial we will explain how to create a multi file project and how to wrap it as a single file and send it to Triggers and Functions. The tutorial assume you have Redis with the RedisGears 2.0 module installed on `localhost:6379`. See [getting started](../README.md) section for installation instructions.

Reviewer 2: We should probably change this entire taturial to use the sdk: https://github.com/RedisGears/RedisGearsJSSDK

Author: I updated it with gears API

> When the project is small it is acceptable to have a single file that contains the entire code base. But as the project grows and become complex it is less comfortable to maintain it as a single file project. Lucky for us JS already face such problem and has the relevant tool to maintain a multi file project and compress it on build time to a single file that contains all the code. In this tutorial we will explain how to create a multi file project and how to wrap it as a single file and send it to Triggers and Functions. The tutorial assume you have Redis with the RedisGears 2.0 module installed on `localhost:6379`. See [getting started](../README.md) section for installation instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the project is small it is acceptable to have a single file that contains the entire code base. But as the project grows and becomes complex it is more difficult to maintain it as a single file project. Lucky for us, JS already addressed such problem and has the relevant tool to maintain a multi file project and compress it on build time to a single file that contains all the code. In this tutorial we will explain how to create a multi file project and how to wrap it as a single file and send it to Triggers and Functions. The tutorial assumes you have Redis with the RedisGears 2.0 module installed on `localhost:6379`. See [getting started](../README.md) section for installation instructions.
```

## Pre-requisite

* npm

## Creating the Project

Lets first create a directory to store our project and initialize our project with npm:
```bash
mkdir test
cd test
npm init -y
```

> The above will generate a `package.json` file that looks as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above will generate a `package.json` file that looks as follows:
```

```json
{
  "name": "test",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
  "main": "index.js",
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "keywords": [],
  "author": "",
  "license": "ISC"
}

```

> In order to wrap our multi file project into a single file, we will use [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), let install the required webpack tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to wrap our multi file project into a single file, we will use [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/). Let's install the required webpack tools:
```

```bash
npm install webpack webpack-cli --save-dev
```

> Now lets create the `src` directory that will contain our code. Inside it lets create a single file, `index.js`, that will be used as our main file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's create the `src` directory that will contain our code and inside it create a single file, `index.js`, that will be used as our main file.
```

```bash
mkdir src
cd src
touch index.js
```

Now lets add some code to `index.js`, open `index.js` file and past the following code:

```js
redis.register_function("hello", function(){
    return "Hello World";
});
```

> The next step is to create the webpack configuration file. On the project root directory, generate a file called `webpack.config.js` and add the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to create the webpack configuration file. On the project root directory, create a file called `webpack.config.js` and add the following code:
```

```js
const webpack = require('webpack');

module.exports = {
    entry: './src/index.js',
    mode: "production",
    plugins: [
        new webpack.BannerPlugin({
			banner:'#!js name=myFirstLibrary',
            raw: true,
            entryOnly: true,
	    })
	]
}
```

> The `entry` field is the entry point of our project. The plugin we use instruct webpack to add a banner line at the beginning of the generated code that will contains the shebang syntax required by Triggers and Functions along side the library name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `entry` field is the entry point of our project. The plugin we use instructs webpack to add a banner line at the beginning of the generated code that will contain the shebang syntax required by Triggers and Functions along side the library name.
```

We can now build our project, from within the root directory run the following command:

```bash
npx webpack --config webpack.config.js
```

If all was done correctly you will see a new directory, `dist`, with a single file, `main.js`, that contains the following code:

```js
#!js api_version=1.0 name=myFirstLibrary
redis.register_function("hello", (function() { return"Hello World" }));
```

> This file can be send to be evaluated by Triggers and Functions using `redis-cli`. From the project root directory, run the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file can be sent to be evaluated by Triggers and Functions using `redis-cli`. From the project root directory, run the following:
```

```bash
redis-cli -x RG.FUNCTION LOAD < ./dist/main.js
```

An `OK` reply will indicating that the library was loaded successfully. Test the library functionality by running the following:

```bash
> redis-cli TFCALL myFirstLibrary.hello 0
"Hello World"
```

## Adding Files to our Project

> Lets adda another file under the `src` directory called `test.js` that contains the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's add another file under the `src` directory called `test.js` that contains the following code:
```

```js
export var test = 'test';
```

> Lets modify `index.js` to import the `test` variable from `test.js`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify `index.js` to import the `test` variable from `test.js`:
```

```js
import {test} from "./test.js"

redis.register_function("hello", function(){
    return test;
});
```

If we will compile our code again:

```bash
npx webpack --config webpack.config.js
```

> We will see that the generated file content has changed and it is now contains the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we will see that the generated file content has changed and it now contains the following code:
```

```js
#!js api_version=1.0 name=myFirstLibrary
(()=>{"use strict";redis.register_function("hello",(function(){return"test"}))})();
```

> Now we can upload our function (notice that we use the UPGRADE option to upgrade the existing function):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can upload our function. Notice that we use the UPGRADE option to upgrade the existing function; forgetting to do so will result in an error.
```

```bash
redis-cli -x TFUNCTION LOAD REPLACE < ./dist/main.js
```

And we can test our function:

```bash
> redis-cli TFCALL myFirstLibrary.hello 0
"test"
```

## Using an External Library

> Now lets use some external library, for example `mathjs`. To install the library run the following npm command on the project root directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's try using an external library, for example `mathjs`. To install the library, run the following npm command on the project root directory:
```

```
npm install mathjs --save
```

> Lets change our program to use `pi` variable imported from `mathjs` library:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify our program to use the `pi` variable imported from `mathjs` library:
```

```js
import {pi} from "mathjs"

redis.register_function("hello", function(){
    return pi;
});
```

> Again lets compile our project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Again, compile our project:
```

```bash
npx webpack --config webpack.config.js
```

Upgrade our library:

```bash
redis-cli -x TFUNCTION LOAD REPLACE < ./dist/main.js
```

And run it:

```bash
> redis-cli TFCALL myFirstLibrary.hello 0
"3.1415926535897931"
```

> Notice that Triggers and Functions **only supports pure JS libraries**, a library that has a native code or use some native JS API provided by the browser or by nodejs **will not work**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that Triggers and Functions **only supports pure JS libraries**. A library that has native code or uses some native JS APIs provided by the browser or by nodejs **will not work**.
```

## Easy Build and Deploy

> We can use npm scripts section to achieve an easy build and deploy commands, change the scripts section on `package.json` to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use an npm scripts section to achieve easy to use build and deploy commands. Change the scripts section on `package.json` to the following:
```
